I want to talk a little
bit about HTTP in depth.
I think it's important to understand kind
of the low level players, so to speak,
before we get to the frameworks
like ASP.NET Core.
It'll help us kind of understand what
ASP.NET Core does under the hood.
So HTTP is the protocol that
pretty much the web uses.
It allows clients to communicate
with servers and back.
It's the protocol that powers the web.
It's pretty standard.
I think that if you open up a web browser
and you go to a website using HTTP.
I wanna take a brief look at
a typical request and response.
This is what it actually looks like
when you're actually making a request.
Under the hood when the bytes are moving
from the client to the server,
this is what it looks like.
If we take it line by line,
we have GET /index.
So GET is what's called the HTTP verb.
And so we'll see a lot of those.
We'll use a few of them
during this course.
This will be the resource that
you're actually wanting to request.
In this case, it's index.html.
And the version of HTTP that you're
using to execute the request,
most of them are HTTP/1.1.
Still not a hugely amount of wide
support for HTTP/2, but it's happening.
Slowly, but surely.
We have the host, so
this is where we should actually go for
www.example.com is the web host.
And then the resource,
the fully qualified resource name
would be example.com/index.html.
And then these are what's
referred to as request headers.
And so these are data about the request
that is being sent by the client
to say hey, I want expect and
I accept back a text HTML.
That gives the server
the opportunity to say,
well I can't serve that if
you request something funky.
And then you can use accept
language as well to say,
I want this in English, and I want it in
the United States version of English.
You can have as many headers
as you want in your request.
It's really dependent on
what the server needs.
And usually these requests are a lot
bigger in that there's usually lots
more headers that
are sent by your browser.
But I think this is fine for
now in terms of understanding kind of
the pieces of HTTP that are relevant for
this course.
So the response looks very similar.
Requests and responses, they have
pretty much the same similarities
in that there's always
a header that's defined.
Yep, this is HTTP/1.
This is the status code that's
returned from the server to say, yes,
your request is good.
200, okay,
is everybody's favorite response.
Because that means, hey,
everything worked, everything was good.
So it says 200, okay?
Gives the client the opportunity to
parse that and say, request happened.
And then the response headers.
So, the server can respond with a huge
amount of headers that define, here's
the content type, here's the language,
here's whether or not you should cache it.
And if you can cache it or should cache
it, here's how long you can cache it,
things like that.
And then of course,
the body of the response.
You've requested data from the server, so
the server has responded in kind
with some type of information.
Not always, sometimes the body is blank,
but in this case,
we expected an HTML page and
sure enough, that's what we got back.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: I want to
touch on HTTP methods a little bit.
They're also known as HTTP verbs.
GETs are used to get resources.
GETs have one interesting quality in
that they are not supposed to be sent
with a body in the request.
You can, and some servers can respond and
read that body, but
recommended that you don't.
POST, PUT, and DELETE.
So post and puts are usually
to do some kind of mutation.
In the API world,
posts are usually akin to,
I want to take some action or
I want to create some object.
We'll be using it more for
the create an object.
And then puts in the API world is
another way to mutate a resource.
But it's often used to re-mutate,
like change an existing resource like
an employee,
which we'll see plenty of examples of.
And then the delete verb also does
not get sent with the body, and
it just does delete
the specified resource.
These are a few of additional
ones that you'll see.
Patch, we won't be using
this one in this course, but
patch is sometimes used in place
of puts to mutate a resource.
And there's actually a whole patch spec
that nobody seems to have adopted for
actually changing just little bits
of a resource, not widely adopted.
A head request is just basically saying,
hey, can you respond to this?
Give me the information from a get
request, but don't return the body.
I just wanna see if we're all good.
And then options describing
the communication option for
the target resource, often used by CORS (Cross-origin resource sharing),
which we will not cover in this course,
to determine whether or
not a resource is accessible.
So most of the time for APIs, we're gonna
be using GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE.
Those are the common ones, and we'll
see examples of that as we go through.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So
HTTP status codes,
the status codes define the result
of the request as we mentioned.
We've all seen 200, we've all seen
404 errors where we say this page or
this resource is not found.
So I wanted to go through,
they're generally grouped into
the first digit of the response code.
So we have informational,
I don't see this used hardly ever.
Success, probably the most common
one is to say, yes, my request,
was successful, and I accepted it, and
I maybe responded with some relevant data.
300 level response codes indicate that
there's some kind of redirection or
some type of further action that needs to
be handled in order to take the request.
Usually, it's a redirect response
code that's returned for a 300.
We have 400 client errors.
So this is going to be my
favorite response code because
I think it's the most important one,
which is 400 bad requests.
And of course, there's 404 to
say the resource doesn't exist.
And then 500 errors
are typically reserved for it.
Hey, the server couldn't
handle this request.
Something catastrophic happened that
couldn't connect to the database.
I'm just gonna respond with 500, throw my
hands in the air, I can't do anything.
These are the ones that we
are going to use the most of.
We're gonna say okay, 200 okay,
201 created to say
a resource has been created.
We'll also use 204 no content for
seeing a resource has been deleted,
which some people implement.
Usually I just return a 200.
We'll see 400 bad requests.
We'll see lots of those, absolutely.
We'll touch on 401 and 403.
I do intend to talk through
some of the identity and
authorization aspects of the ASP.NET Core framework, but
we're not going to get too in depth in it.
So these are the kinds of requests
that we're going to see a lot.
Let's take a look at
a typical POST request.
This is gonna be the kind of thing.
We're building APIs, so
we're marshaling JSON back and
forth from the client to the server.
So this is gonna be an example
of what we're gonna send a lot.
Which is to say we're
gonna have a post request.
We're gonna hit the employees,
create endpoint of some kind.
Here's the host that we're gonna go to,
and
here's the content type of this request.
That tells the server, hey, this is JSON,
and you should interpret it as such.
This is the data transfer format that
is the ubiquitous format of the web for
transferring data back and
forth from an API.
We're gonna be using JSON,
it's the most common one.